High-Risk Jurisdictions subject to a Call for Action — 24 October 2025

High-risk jurisdictions have significant strategic deficiencies in their regimes to counter money laundering, terrorist financing, and financing of proliferation. For all countries identified as high-risk, the FATF calls on all members and urges all jurisdictions to apply enhanced due diligence, and, in the most serious cases, countries are called upon to apply counter-measures to protect the international financial system from the money laundering, terrorist financing, and proliferation financing (ML/TF/PF) risks emanating from the country.

Jurisdictions subject to a FATF call for countermeasures:

Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK)

The FATF remains concerned by the DPRK's failure to address the significant deficiencies in its anti-money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) regime and the serious threats they pose. The FATF has noted that the DPRK has increased connectivity with the international financial system, which raises proliferation financing risks. The FATF reaffirms its 25 February 2011 call on its members and urges all jurisdictions to advise their financial institutions to give special attention to business relationships and transactions with the DPRK, including DPRK companies, financial institutions acting on behalf of the DPRK, and those who act on their behalf. The FATF applies countermeasures to protect the international financial system from the ongoing and substantial money laundering, terrorist financing, and proliferation financing risks emanating from the DPRK.

Iran

In June 2016, Iran committed to address its strategic deficiencies. Iran's action plan expired in January 2018. In February 2020, the FATF noted Iran has not completed its action plan. Iran will remain on the FATF statement on High Risk Jurisdictions subject to a Call for Action until the full action plan has been completed. Iran reported in January, August and December 2024 and August 2025 with no material changes in the status of its action plan, and has failed to address the majority of its action plan since 2016. The FATF calls on its members and urges all jurisdictions to apply effective countermeasures. The FATF further calls on jurisdictions to apply the specific countermeasures of:
- Refusing the establishment of subsidiaries or branches or representative offices of financial institutions from the country concerned, or otherwise taking into account the fact that the relevant financial institution is from a country that does not have adequate AML/CFT systems; and
- Prohibiting financial institutions from establishing branches or representative offices in the country concerned, or otherwise taking into account the fact that the relevant branch or representative office would be in a country that does not have adequate AML/CFT systems.

Jurisdiction subject to a FATF call to apply enhanced due diligence proportionate to risks:

Myanmar

In February 2020, Myanmar committed to address its strategic deficiencies. Given the continued lack of progress, the FATF calls on its members and other jurisdictions to apply enhanced due diligence measures proportionate to the risk arising from Myanmar. Myanmar will remain on the list of jurisdictions subject to a call for action until its full action plan is completed. If no further progress is made by February 2026, the FATF will consider countermeasures. When applying enhanced due diligence, countries should ensure that flows of funds for humanitarian assistance, legitimate NPO activity and remittances are neither disrupted nor discouraged. The FATF will also continue to monitor whether Myanmar's AML/CFT activities apply undue scrutiny to legitimate financial flows.

Note: Content compiled from FATF public statements (October 24, 2025) as referenced by FinCEN Advisory (November 21, 2025), FIAU Malta, and other FATF member regulatory bodies. The source PDF is image-based and does not contain extractable text.