# LSAG AML Guidance 2025 - Customer Due Diligence (CDD)
# Sections 6.1 - 6.16
# Source: lsag-aml-guidance-23-april-2025.pdf

6.1 General Comments  
 
Undertaking appropriate Client Due Diligence (CDD) is required under R27, and is one of the 
key controls you have, to protect your practice from Money Laundering and Terrorism 
Financing (ML/TF) risks. 
 
CDD is the collective term for the checks you must do on your clients, which may differ 
depending on the circumstances. It is holistic in nature and is wider than simply 
undertaking identification and verification of clients. 
 
Aside from any specific CDD requirements you must take under the Regulations, the 
amount, type and level of CDD undertaken should reflect and mitigate the nature of 
particular risks inherent in each client, transaction or matter.  
 

58 
 
 
Practices must be able to demonstrate to their supervisory authority that these CDD 
measures are appropriate in mitigation of these risks, by recording their reasoning and 
actions in this regard. 
 
Useful information in regard to understanding the nature and purpose of a relationship may 
include:  
• The nature and details of the business/occupation/employment; 
• Source of funds and source of wealth information; or 
• Anticipated levels and nature of activity to be conducted. 
Beyond adherence to the Regulations, there is a natural incentive for practices to establish 
with confidence who their client is and the details of any transaction they are involved in or 
facilitating. It will protect them from unintentionally facilitating a range of financial crimes or 
being defrauded themselves. 
 
Identifying and verifying clients, is also essential for a practice to be able to accurately report 
suspicious activity to the National Crime Agency (NCA), identify Politically Exposed Persons 
(PEPs) or other high-risk individuals, and ensure the practice is not undertaking business in 
breach of applicable sanctions regimes. 
 
In relation to CDD, the Policies, Controls and Procedures (PCPs) of your firm should be set 
out clearly, in writing in a way that is accessible to all relevant staff in your practice. 
 
6.2 Long-standing/Personal Relationships 
 
There is no provision in the Regulations for waiving CDD requirements on the basis of long-
standing or personal relationships. Taking this approach will not satisfy the requirement to 
undertake independent verification, though these factors may inform your risk-based 
approach. 
 
6.3 Application of CDD 
 
You are required to apply CDD for services in scope of the Regulations when: 
 
• establishing a business relationship; 
• carrying out an occasional transaction that amounts to a transfer of funds within 
the meaning of Article 3.9 of the Funds Transfer Regulation (Regulation (EU) 
2015/847)
3
 exceeding 1,000 Euros; 
 
3
(9) ‘transfer of funds’ means any transaction at least partially carried out by electronic means on behalf of a 
payer through a payment service provider, with a view to making funds available to a payee through a 
payment service provider, irrespective of whether the payer and the payee are the same person and 
irrespective of whether the payment service provider of the payer and that of the payee are one and the 
same, including:  
(a)  a credit transfer as defined in point (1) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 260/2012;  
(b)  a direct debit as defined in point (2) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 260/2012;  
(c)  a money remittance as defined in point (13) of Article 4 of Directive 2007/64/EC, whether national or cross 
border;  
(d)  a transfer carried out using a payment card, an electronic money instrument, or a mobile phone, or any 
other digital or IT prepaid or post-paid device with similar characteristics;   

59 
 
 
• carrying out an occasional transaction that amounts to 15,000 Euros or more, 
whether it is executed in a single operation or in several operations which appear 
to be linked; 
• you suspect money laundering or terrorist financing; or 
• you doubt the veracity or adequacy of documents or information previously 
obtained for the purposes of identification or verification. 
The Regulations as amended prescribe further situations where you must re-apply CDD for 
existing clients. These arise when you have any legal duty in the course of the calendar year 
to contact a client to review information: 
 
• relevant to your client risk assessment (or practice-wide/matter risk assessment as 
appropriate); or 
• concerning beneficial ownership information of the customer, including information 
which helps you understand the ownership or control structure of any entity that is 
the beneficial owner of the client. 
 
The duty also arises where a practice has a duty to contact the client under the International 
Tax Compliance Regulations 2015. 
 
6.4 Definition of Business Relationship 
There may be several indicators that a client is establishing a business relationship, as 
opposed to the matter being an “occasional transaction” including but not limited to: 
• an explicit expectation from the client or practice that a business relationship is 
being established; 
• the nature of the client or the transaction suggests they may wish to undertake 
more than one transaction e.g., it is in the nature of their business;  
• or the transaction itself will inherently take time to complete e.g., the 
buying/selling of real property. 
 
The definition of business relationship under the Regulations requires the legal 
practitioner to have an expectation at the time the contact is established, that the 
relationship will have “an element of duration” (R4). This should be interpreted in the 
broadest sense, as it is reasonable to assume that any legal professional will have an 
expectation of possible further business from any initial contact made with a client. 
When dealing with a client for the first time, you should assume that a business 
relationship is being formed unless you have explicit reasons to know that this is not 
the case i.e., that there will not be an “element of duration.”  
 
The nature of the relationship should be recorded in the client risk assessment. Any 
reasons for not applying CDD must be clearly recorded and this will in practice be in 
the rarest of exceptions. 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, any company formation on behalf of a client immediately 
implies the establishment of a business relationship as per R4(2). 
 
6.5 Definition of an occasional transaction 
 
A transaction that falls outside of a “business relationship,” is known as an occasional 
transaction. 
 

60 
 
 
By definition it can only apply where a practice-client relationship lacks an expectation 
of an “element of duration.” For this definition to apply, the relationship must be limited 
to a single service provided at a certain point in time.   
 
It will still be necessary to undertake CDD for an occasional transaction where it has a 
value of 15,000 Euros or more. 15,000 Euros relates only to the sums involved in the 
transaction(s) and does not include legal fees or distributions. 
 
Due to the ongoing duties a practice would have in most foreseeable circumstances, 
this definition is not likely to apply to the relationship between a legal practice and a 
client for any transaction. 
 
It may apply in the case of a limited ancillary service, provided as a one-off or in some 
examples of notarial work in particular. Please see Part 2 for more information on 
notarial work. 
 
6.6 Intermediaries, agents or representatives 
 
If your client is represented by an intermediary, agent or representative (i.e., someone 
purporting to represent them), you must comply with R28(10) and identify and verify the 
intermediary's identity and their authority to act on behalf of your underlying client. 
 
Examples of someone purporting to represent might include: 
 
• a parent on behalf of an adult child; 
• an individual not employed by your client; or 
• a situation where the instructing persons authority to instruct is not clear or does not 
make sense. 
 
In the absence of factors that give rise to a concern, an employee of a company would 
not be considered to be ‘purporting to instruct’.  A risk-based approach should be taken 
to the level of identification verification applied.  Authority to instruct can be addressed 
by an engagement letter or equivalent but it should come directly from the underlying 
client (including where instructed by an employee of the company).  
 
Even where someone does not purport to act on someone else’s behalf, you should 
consider if it is possible there may be an underlying client that is the recipient 
(potentially by proxy via another professional service provider) of your services on more 
than a single isolated basis. If you think this is possible, you should satisfy yourself that 
you have identified and verified who the underlying client is or establish a suitable 
reliance arrangement with the professional you are dealing with. 
 
You should ensure you understand who your client relationship is with. There may be 
times when an intermediary is your client (in that your contract is with them) but the 
intermediary’s client is the ultimate beneficiary of your work and advice. The regulations 
make clear that a “beneficial owner” is the individual on whose behalf a transaction is 
being conducted and you should treat such a client as a beneficial owner, including 
undertaking reasonable measures to identify and verify their identity. This is different to 
a situation where an entity refers a client to you (see below.) 
 
Where the intermediary is an entity, you may consider whether you need to undertake 
Ultimate Beneficial Ownership checks on a risk-based approach. 

61 
 
 
 
See 6.14.9 for how to identify and verify individuals in these situations. 
 
6.7 Referrals to another legal practice (or referrals between other entities in scope of 
the regulations) 
 
The difference between the circumstances described in 6.6 and making referrals to 
another practice is described in the below table.  
 
This table relates to solicitors only - for arrangements relating to Barristers and 
Advocates, please consult the relevant section in Part 2.  
Intermediaries, Agents or 
Representatives 
 
Referrals 
If you are instructed by a law firm, or 
other professional intermediary the law 
firm/professional intermediary are your 
client, and you will need to undertake 
CDD on them.  
 
If the effective beneficial owner of the 
advice is that law firm’s/professional 
intermediary’s client, you should 
consider the risks and identify/verify 
their client as you would any other 
ultimate beneficial owner.  
This could include understanding the 
checks the intermediary has carried 
out. 
Where a legal practice or other 
intermediary refers a client to you and 
you have the direct relationship with 
the client, you should treat the referred 
entity as the client and carry out CDD 
on them as the client in the usual way.  
You may wish to consider, having 
regard to the risks (and regulated 
status of the referring entity), whether 
a reliance agreement with the referring 
entity is appropriate in the 
circumstances. 

62 
 
 
 
6.8 Timing of CDD 
 
CDD must be completed before you: 
• deliver substantive work or benefit; 
• permit funds to be deposited in your practice’s client account unless they are 
for fees and disbursements;  
• allow property to be transferred; or  
• allow final agreements to be signed and completed. 
A legal practice should ensure that CDD has been completed as early as possible, before 
any money has been taken from the client, though money on account of costs/fees may be 
accepted on a risk sensitive basis. 
 
Conducting CDD as early as possible also helps you to avoid any delays further along in the 
matter and will help you in your duty to report suspicious activity, at an early stage. This can 
help protect you from needing to submit a suspicious activity report (SAR) seeking a defence 
against money laundering (DAML) to return funds that have been paid into your client 
account, where you have a suspicion the funds may be the proceeds of crime. 
 
R30 requires you to verify your client's identity, the identity of any person purporting to act 
on their behalf and that of any beneficial owner before you establish a business 
relationship or carry out a transaction which amounts to 15,000 Euros or more (subject to 
R30(3)(a)). 
 
 
6.9 What happens when you cannot complete CDD? 
 
R31 provides that if you are unable to complete CDD in time, including identification & 
verification, you must: 
• not carry out a transaction with or for the client through a bank account; 
• not carry out a transaction otherwise than through a bank account; or, 
• terminate the business relationship. 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, you should consider a failure to apply CDD under R28(10) 
(persons acting as agents) as also triggering the above requirements in R31. 
 
If you are unable to complete CDD, you must in addition to terminating any existing business 
relationship consider making a disclosure to the NCA. 
 
You cannot seek consent from the NCA to proceed with a transaction solely because you 
have been unable to complete CDD measures as required by R28 and reporting a matter 
to the NCA is not a substitute for your responsibility to complete CDD. Although you should 
consider making a disclosure to the NCA where you have been unable to complete CDD, 
this does not mean you are automatically required to submit a SAR. For further information 
refer to Section 11. 

63 
 
 
 
6.10 Exceptions to the timing requirement 
There are exceptions to the timing requirement and the prohibition on acting for the client 
until CDD has been completed. 
 
Where there is a delay in completing CDD you should consider why, and whether this 
gives rise to a suspicion which should be disclosed to the NCA. 
 
A practice should document any occasion where CDD was delayed in the matter risk 
assessment and take appropriate mitigatory steps in order to manage any risks this may 
create.  
 
In the event that you think either of the below exceptions apply, you should consider and 
record your reasoning as to why. 
 
However, when acting for a: 
 
• UK company (registered or unregistered as defined in the Unregistered 
Companies Regulations 2009(1)); 
• UK Limited Liability Partnership; or  
• Scottish Partnership 
 
- you must collect proof of registration (e.g., via the client) or an excerpt from the relevant 
register before commencing a business relationship even when relying on an exception to 
the timing requirement. 
 
6.10.1 Exception 1 - Normal conduct of business 
R30(3) provides that verification of the client and the beneficial owner may be completed as 
soon as practicable after contact is first established, during the establishment of the 
business relationship if: 
 
• it is necessary not to interrupt the normal conduct of business; and 
• there is little risk of money laundering or terrorist financing.  
 
This should be considered in the context of the points in 6.8 of this guidance. 
 
If there is little risk of money laundering (due to the nature of the client or transaction) thus 
allowing a delay in CDD completion, the reasons for this view must be included in the 
client and/or matter risk assessment, along with any mitigations you have put in place for 
this. 
 
Consider your Practice Wide Risk Assessment (PWRA) when assessing which work, if 
any, can be undertaken prior to verification being completed. This exception does not 
apply if your matter is an occasional transaction. 
 
 

64 
 
 
6.10.2 Exception 2 - Ascertaining legal position 
 
R31(3) provides that the prohibitions in 31(1) do not apply where: 
’An independent legal professional or other professional adviser is in the course of 
ascertaining the legal position for their client or performing the task of defending or 
representing that client in, or concerning, legal proceedings, including giving advice on the 
institution or avoidance of proceedings.' 
 
We interpret this to mean that this exception does not generally apply to transactional 
work but may be relevant when considering work undertaken as a tax adviser or when 
ascertaining the legal position an anticipation or preparation of early stages of 
transactional work or early stages of representation or provision of legal advice on other 
topics.  
 
6.11 Undertaking CDD on Clients 
 
R28 requires that you must: 
 
• Identify the client and verify their identity on the basis of documents (e.g., passport 
or driver’s license) or information obtained from a reliable source which is 
independent of the client (which may include a digital verification system, subject to 
meeting certain criteria – further details provided under Section 7), unless the 
identity of the client is already known to you and has been verified by you; 
• Identify where there is a beneficial owner who is not the client and take 
reasonable measures to verify the identity so that you are satisfied that you 
know who the beneficial owner is; 
• Take reasonable measures to understand the ownership and control structure of 
the legal person, trust, company, foundation or other similar legal arrangement; 
• Assess, and where appropriate obtain information on the purpose and intended 
nature of the business relationship or occasional transaction; and 
• Conduct ongoing monitoring, scrutinise transactions and make sure CDD 
documents are up to date. 
 
6.12 Identification and verification 
 
Identification  of  a  client or  a  beneficial  owner  is simply  being told  or  otherwise  coming  to 
know a client's identifying details, such as their name and address. 
 
Verification is obtaining evidence which supports this claim of identity.  
 
6.13 A risk-based approach 
 
R28(12) provides that to comply with the requirement to take CDD measures, you must 
reflect: 
• the PWRA (R18); and 
• your assessment of the level of risk arising in any particular case i.e., the 
client/matter risk assessment. 
 

65 
 
 
6.14 Methods of verification 
 
Verification should be completed on the basis of documents or information which come 
from a reliable source, independent of the client. There are a number of ways in which you 
may verify a client's identity including: 
 
• obtaining or viewing original documents from a trusted and independent source 
(public or private); 
• on a risk sensitive basis viewing copies of documents (certification of a copy may 
give you a higher level of confidence than an uncertified copy, but you should 
consider and document the risks of relying on certified copies for this);  
• conducting electronic verification, through a platform that is a reliable source (i.e., 
secure from fraud and misuse and capable of providing an appropriate level of 
assurance that the person claiming a particular identity is in fact the person with 
that identity, to a degree that is necessary for effectively managing and mitigating 
any risks of money laundering and terrorist financing); or 
• obtaining information from other regulated persons. 
 
6.14.1 Independent sources 
 
You need a reliable source(s) to verify your client’s identity, which is independent of the 
client e.g.  a passport or driver’s license, or, in the case of a corporate entity, evidence of 
registration from the relevant registry or reputable company services provider. 
 
You are permitted to use a wider range of sources when verifying the identity of the 
beneficial owner and understanding the ownership and control structure of the client.  
 
Sometimes only the client or their representatives will be able to provide you with this 
information. You may consider whether the documents or information should be certified as 
accurate by a professional regulated for AML to an equivalent standard.  
 
R28(9) confirms that the register of people with significant control, or the confirmation 
statement, which is published on the Companies House website, cannot be solely relied 
upon for the purpose of identifying or verifying the identity of the beneficial owner of a 
company or LLP client.  
 
The Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 (ECCTA) brought in a 
number of changes to the way that companies are registered and what information must 
be declared on an ongoing basis. These increase the volume and detail required on 
registration and in annual returns. While this information will be very useful in assessing 
risk and completing due diligence, R28(9) is not affected.  
 
Remember, if you are not satisfied with the information you have on the identity of your 
client/beneficial owner, you should not undertake business with that client, (or cease 
business if an existing client) as per the requirements of R31. 
 
Documents should be in date if an expiry date is given, and recently dated (taking a risk-
based approach) if no expiry date is given. Expired documents should not be relied upon 
in the absence of any others but may be useful in support. 
 

66 
 
 
6.14.2 Forged Documents 
 
You must not ignore obvious forgeries, but you are not required to be an expert in forged 
documents. You may however consider providing relevant employees with appropriate 
training and equipment to help identify forged documents where relevant to the processes 
of your practice where proportionate to the risk. 
 
You may make use of guidance on how to identify a forged document from the issuing 
body, or a similarly reputable source. For example, the Passport office issues such 
information, and current bill formats are available on utility provider websites.  
 
6.14.3 Electronic verification 
 
As technology has developed, use of electronic identification and verification (EID&V) tools 
have become more common. While you can never outsource your ultimate responsibility, 
EID&V tools can be useful in protecting your practice. 
 
R28 sets out minimum requirements for EID&V processes to be regarded as reliable sources 
in applying CDD.  
 
Test for whether you are able to use an EID&V tool 
 
Meeting the definitions in the (R2014/910/EU of the European Parliament and of 
the Council of 23rd July 2014) as below 
 
Electronic identification - means the process of using person identification data in 
electronic form uniquely representing either a natural or legal person, or a natural 
person representing a legal person 
 
Trust service - means an electronic service normally provided for remuneration 
which consists of: 
(a) the creation, verification, and validation of electronic signatures, electronic seals 
or electronic time stamps, electronic registered delivery services and certificates 
related to those services; 
(b) the creation, verification and validation of certificates for website authentication; 
or 
(c) the preservation of electronic signatures, seals or certificates related to those 
services 
 
-and being secure from fraud, misuse and capable of providing an appropriate level 
of assurance that the person claiming a particular identity is in fact the person with 
that identity, to a degree that is necessary for effectively managing and mitigating 
any risks of money laundering and terrorist financing. 
 
 
There is further information available on this in Section 7. 
 

67 
 
 
6.14.4 Natural persons 
The name, date of birth and current address of a natural person should all be identified 
and practices may use government photo-card identification (including passports or driving 
licenses) to verify these details. 
 
To do this you should obtain documents that verify name, address and date of birth, for 
example:  
 
• one government document which verifies name, address  and date of birth; or 
• a government document which verifies the client's full name and supporting 
documents which verifies their address and date of birth. 
 
You may consult a variety of documents to identify and verify your client. Where 
government-issued documents are not available, you may consider alternatives such as 
those set out at 6.14.7 below.   
The requirement to obtain suitable verification should not preclude access to legal services, 
especially to vulnerable, elderly or disadvantaged clients. In these situations, where it is not 
possible to obtain such documents, consider the reliability of other sources and the risks 
associated with the client and the matter. See the “Clients unable to produce standard 
documentation” section below. 
 
Where you are reasonably satisfied that an individual is nationally or internationally 
known, for example, because they are a public figure or a well-known celebrity (i.e., that 
you can confidently recognise them as the person they are purporting to be), a record of 
identification may include a file note of your satisfaction about identity, including an 
address. You should consider whether the individual may be a PEP, or family member 
or known close associate of a PEP. 
 
6.14.5 Meeting clients face to face 
 
The following sources may be useful for verification of UK-based clients: 
 
• current, signed passport, driving license or birth certificate; 
• marriage certificate (e.g., particularly useful for evidencing name changes);  
• current government-issued identity card/certificate with photograph (e.g., gun license); 
• residence permit issued by the Home Office; 
• photographic registration cards for self-employed individuals and partnerships in 
the construction industry; 
• benefit book or original notification letter confirming the right to benefits; 
• a tax or utility bill or statement, or a certificate from a utility supplier confirming 
an arrangement to pre-pay for services; 
• a recent bank or mortgage statement/passbook from an FCA-regulated lender; 
• confirmation from an electoral register that a person of that name lives at that 
address; 
• land registry confirmation of address; 
• local council or housing association rent card or tenancy agreement; or 
• house or motor insurance certificate. 
 

68 
 
 
Where you are provided with an electronic copy of a document (such as a downloaded 
bank statement) you should continue to take a risk-based approach while being conscious 
that its value as proof of address may be less than a standard hard copy. 
 
Part of the reason to accept documents such as a hard copy posted bank statement and 
letters from government agencies is to demonstrate that the individual has access to the 
property to which they were delivered. Part of that comfort is removed when print outs of 
electronic statements/bills are used.  This does not mean that such print- outs cannot be 
accepted but this loss of comfort should be considered on a risk sensitive basis.   
 
If documents are in a foreign language you should take appropriate steps to be 
satisfied that the documents in fact provide evidence of the client's identity and 
more generally that you understand what they say. Unless you have a sufficient 
level of understanding of the language, you should consider engaging the services 
of a translator. 
 
You should be mindful that some aspects of an individual’s identity (particularly 
name and/or sex) may change over time for entirely legitimate reasons, for 
example due to a change in sex or gender, or due to other life events such as a 
marriage or discretionary change of name. Such changes should not be used as a 
reason to withhold legal services in isolation, or necessarily interpreted as an 
indicator of higher AML risk  
 
6.14.6 Natural Persons not able to meet face to face  
 
In the case of persons you cannot meet face to face, consideration should be given to any 
geographic/jurisdictional (which could be at a regional or national level) risks this may 
present (see risk assessment section of this guidance for further information).  
 
The client's address may be identified or verified via: 
 
• an official overseas source; 
• a reputable directory; or 
• a person regulated to an equivalent standard for money laundering purposes in 
the country where the person is resident who confirms that the client is known to 
them and lives or works at the address given. 
 
When you do not meet the client, you should consider the reason for this and whether this 
represents an additional risk which should be taken into account in your risk assessment of 
the client and the extent of the due diligence measures you apply. EID&V may be a 
particularly useful tool in these circumstances. 
 
6.14.7 Clients unable to produce standard documentation 
Sometimes clients are unable to provide standard verification documents. The purpose of 
the Regulations is not to deny people access to legal services for legitimate transactions, 
but to mitigate the risk of legal services being used for the purposes of money laundering. 
You should consider whether the inability to provide you with standard verification is 
consistent with the client's profile and circumstances or whether it might make you 
suspicious that money laundering or terrorist financing is occurring. 
 

69 
 
 
If you decide that a client has a good reason for not meeting the standard verification 
requirements, you may accept a letter from an appropriate person who knows the 
individual and can verify the client's identity. 
 
For example: 
• Clients in care homes might be able to provide a letter from the manager; 
• For elderly clients, you may be able to accept a letter from a General Medical 
Practitioner; 
• Clients without a permanent residence might be able to provide a letter from a 
householder named on a current council tax bill or a hostel manager, confirming 
temporary residence; 
• A refugee might be able to provide a letter from the Home Office confirming refugee 
status and granting permission to work, or a Home Office travel document for 
refugees; 
• An asylum seeker might be able to provide their registration card and any other 
identity documentation they hold, or a letter of assurance as to identity from a 
community member such as a religious official, GP, or local councillor who has 
knowledge of the client; 
• A student or minor might be able to provide a birth certificate and confirmation of 
their parent's address or confirmation of address from the register of the school or 
higher education institution; or 
• A person with mental health problems or mental incapacity might know medical 
workers, hostel staff, social workers, deputies or guardians appointed by the court 
who can locate identification documents or confirm the client's identity. 
 
6.14.8 Professionals 
 
Where other professionals use your services, in their capacity as a professional (e.g., when 
representing a client or on behalf of their practice) you may consider using Simplified Due 
Diligence as per R37. 
 
Where other professionals use your services in their capacity as a private individual, you 
will still need to complete full due diligence on them as you would with any other private 
individual. In order to verify their identity and business address you may consult their 
professional directory or register along with other sources. Being a regulated professional 
should not lead to automatic treatment as being low risk in all cases. 
 
You may consider the section on SDD in this context. 
 
6.14.9 Persons acting on behalf of the client 
 
In accordance with R28(10) where a person (the intermediary, agent or representative) 
purports to act on behalf of your client, you must: 
• verify that the intermediary, agent or representative is authorised to act on your 
client’s behalf (i.e., obtain written confirmation from your client); 
• identify the intermediary, agent or representative; and 
• verify the identity of the intermediary, agent or representative on the basis 
of documents and information from a reliable source which is independent 

70 
 
 
of both the representative and the client e.g., via a copy of their passport or 
driving license. 
Someone employed by your client (depending on their position or seniority) or a 
director of your client may be considered as having apparent or ostensible 
authority to provide instructions on behalf of the client, though you may seek 
comfort of this on a risk sensitive basis.  They should not be considered to be 
intermediaries, agents or representatives. Where it is not clear or apparent what 
their authority to instruct on behalf of the client is, CDD should not be considered to 
be complete.  
For further information please also refer to 6.6 and 6.7. 
 
6.14.10 Non-natural persons 
 
R28(3A) states that where the customer is a legal person, trust, company, foundation or 
similar legal arrangement the relevant person must  (having identified and verified the 
customer in line with R28(2))  take reasonable measures to understand the ownership and 
control structure of that legal person, trust, company, foundation or similar legal 
arrangement. This is a wider concept than simply identifying the beneficial owners.  
“Reasonable measures” means taking steps that are risk-based, proportionate and effective 
in mitigating the identified money laundering and terrorism financing risks inherent in the 
client or matter being undertaken. When considering this test of reasonableness, you should 
consider whether the information is likely to assist in addressing the money laundering risks 
and that you are comfortable that you would be able to demonstrate and evidence the extent 
to which you have sought such information, to your supervisor upon request. It should not be 
misinterpreted as an allowance to not fulfil your duty to understand the overall ownership 
and control structure of the client.  
You should also bear in mind that under regulation 33(6)(a)(vi) corporate structures which 
are unusual or excessively complex given the nature of the company's business, are noted 
as a specific risk factor. This may in turn require enhanced due diligence which could 
include, among other things, seeking additional independent, reliable sources to verify 
information provided to you, pursuant to regulation 33(5)(a). 
Regulations 28(3) and (4) set out that you must obtain and verify the client’s registered 
details and, subject to Regulation 28(5), identify the beneficial owner (where there is one). 
You must also (subject to Regulation 28(5)) take reasonable measures to: 
• determine and verify the law to which the body corporate is subject, its constitution and 
the full names of its board of directors or equivalent, and the senior persons responsible 
for the operations of the body corporate; and 
• verify the identity of the any beneficial owner so that you are satisfied that you know who 
the beneficial owner is.  
  
Again, subject to Regulation 28(5), you must also take reasonable measures to understand 
the ownership and control structure of the client entity (as per R28(3A) noted above) and of 
the beneficial owner if it is a non-natural person. This does not simply mean looking at 
percentages of ownership but also identifying individuals with control and directing power, as 
outlined in regulations 5 and 6. You should document your overarching understanding of the 
individual’s background, circumstances and nature of the transaction. 
  

71 
 
 
Under regulation 28(18)(a), “verify” means confirmation based on documents or information 
obtained from a reliable, independent source.  
 
Regulation 28(5) sets out the measures that do not apply where the client is a company 
listed on a regulated market. 
  
Under regulation 28(18)(b), documents issued by an official body are considered 
independent, even if provided or made available by the client or on their behalf. This might 
be significant, for example, where a register was only accessible to the client. 
Where applicable having regard to the circumstances, you should verify the identity of the 
beneficial owner(s) to the equivalent standards as that applied to clients who are natural 
persons, as described in 6.14 and/or 6.14.4. In other, lower risk situations and in limited 
circumstances (such as when the relevant person already knows and has previously verified 
the identity of the beneficial owner) taking reasonable measures to verify the beneficial 
owner may mean, for example, taking verification information from non-independent 
sources. To evidence why verification of beneficial owners through personal identity 
documents is not undertaken, it is important to document your overarching understanding of 
the individual’s background, circumstances and nature of the transaction. 
It is important to note that you are seeking to verify the beneficial owner’s identity, not simply 
that the identity in question is a beneficial owner. You may consider a range of sources to do 
this provided they are appropriate to the risk posed by the client or matter.   
Where you have been unable to verify the identity of the beneficial owners of a non-natural 
person, you should consider the reasons for this and whether this should lead to a disclosure 
to the NCA. Further consideration should be given to whether to act or continue to act for the 
client, particularly where the complexity of the structures is out of your normal scope of 
business or make completing CDD difficult. 
You should record all of your considerations as a part of the client or matter risk assessment, 
for more information see Section 5. 
 
6.14.11 Companies – General Requirements 
 
You must identify and verify 
• the name of the company; 
• its company number or other registration number; and 
• the address of its registered office, and if different, its principal place of business. 
 
Furthermore, the practice must take reasonable measures to determine and verify the law to 
which the company is subject, and its constitution (whether set out in its articles of association 
or other governing documents) and the full names of the board of directors (or if there is no 
board, the members of the equivalent management body) and the senior persons responsible 
for the operations of the body corporate.  
A practice must collect proof of registration (e.g., via the client) or an excerpt from the 
relevant register before establishing a business relationship with a:  
• UK company (registered or unregistered as defined in the Unregistered Companies 
Regulations 2009(1)); 

72 
 
 
• UK Limited Liability Partnership; or  
• Scottish Partnership. 
You must collect proof of registration (e.g., via the client) or an excerpt from the relevant 
register.  
 
Discrepancies in this information must be reported to the registrar, see Section 12 for more 
details. 
Where the client is beneficially owned by another person, the practice must also: 
• identify the beneficial owner; and 
• take reasonable measures to verify the identity of the beneficial owner, along with the 
ownership and control structure of the non-natural person R28(4)(c). 
These reasonable measures for verifying the identity of a non-natural person, may be 
easier to undertake for smaller entities where the beneficial owners may be more 
accessible. For larger entities where the beneficial owners may be more difficult to contact 
directly, EID&V may be of significant help when verifying their identities. 
 
Where a company is well-known or regulated for AML to a standard equivalent to which 
you are subject to in the UK you may consider that the level of money laundering and 
terrorist financing risks are low and apply CDD on a risk-based approach. For listed 
companies see below. 
 
Where you commence acting for a wholly owned subsidiary of an existing client, you may 
refer to the CDD file for your existing client for verification of details of the subsidiary, 
provided that the existing client has been identified to the standards of the Regulations or 
to a similar standard in another jurisdiction. 
 
6.14.11.1 Public companies listed on Regulated Markets 
 
You must obtain and verify the: 
 
• company name; 
• company number or other registration number; and 
• address of the registered office and, if different, principal place of business. 
 
In accordance with R28(5), if the company is listed on a regulated market it is not 
necessary to: 
 
• obtain information about the beneficial owners of the company; or 
• take  reasonable  measures  to  determine  and  verify  the  law  to  which  it  is 
subject or the names of its directors and senior persons. 
 
This may also be applied to a majority-owned subsidiary of such a company 
where you have established the nature of ownership via an independent and 
reliable source. 
 
For a wholly owned subsidiary of a listed company, you will also require 
evidence of the parent/subsidiary relationship. Such evidence may be: 
 
• the subsidiary's last filed annual return/confirmation; 

73 
 
 
• a note in the parent's or subsidiary's last audited accounts or annual report; 
• information  from  a reputable  electronic  verification  service  provider  or  online 
registry; or 
• information from the parent company’s published reports, for example, from their 
website. 
 
“Regulated market” is defined as follows: 
• Within  the  EEA,  the  meaning  given  by  Article  4.1  (14)  of  the  Markets  in 
Financial Instruments Directive; and 
• Outside the EEA, a regulated financial market which subjects’ companies 
whose securities are admitted to trading to disclosure obligations which are 
equivalent to the specified disclosure obligations. 
 
“specified disclosure obligations” means— 
 
(a)disclosure obligations set out in Articles 17 and 19 of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16th April 2014 on market abuse 
(22); 
(b)disclosure obligations consistent with Articles 3, 5, 7, 8, 10, 14 and 16 of Directive 
2003/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4th November 2003 on 
the prospectuses to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted 
to trading(23); 
(c)disclosure obligations consistent with Articles 4 to 6, 14, 16 to 19 and 30 of 
Directive 2004/109/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15th 
December 2004 on the harmonisation of transparency requirements in relation to 
information about issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated 
market(24); and 
(d)disclosure requirements consistent with EU legislation made under the provisions 
mentioned in sub-paragraphs (a) to (c); 
 
 
If a regulated market is located within the EEA there is no requirement to undertake 
checks on the market itself. Under a risk-based approach you may wish to simply record 
the steps taken to ascertain the status of the market. 
 
Consider a similar approach for non-EEA markets that subject companies to disclosure 
obligations which are contained in international standards equivalent to specified 
disclosure obligations in the EU. Jurisdictional AML risks should also be considered – 
see the risk assessment section of this guidance for further information. 
 
Consult the register on the European Securities and Markets Authority website. 
Following an assessment that the client is low risk it will be sufficient, for a listed 
company, to obtain confirmation of the company's listing on the regulated market.  
 
Such evidence may be: 
 
• a copy of the dated page of the website of the relevant stock exchange 
showing the listing; 
• a photocopy of the listing in a reputable newspaper; or 
• information  from  a  reputable  electronic  verification  service  provider  or  online 
registry. 
 

74 
 
 
Where a listed company is owned by multiple parties that are themselves held on a 
regulated market(s), this does not need to be treated differently to a listed company that 
is a wholly owned subsidiary of one, except that you need to collect the details of all 
owners as above. 
 
When assessing a listed company’s relationship with a market, you should have regard to 
whether a company’s ownership is only partially available on a market i.e., only a 
percentage is publicly held. In this context, you should consider seeking further 
information about any owners whose relationship is not through a regulated market on a 
risk sensitive basis. In other words, a company having any proportion of a listing on a 
regulated market however small, does not mean you do not need to check other owners. 
 
The regulated market in the UK is the London Stock Exchange. You may consider whether 
it is appropriate to treat companies listed on other markets in the same way as those 
meeting the definition of “regulated markets” on a risk sensitive basis. For example, AIM is 
not a ‘regulated market’, but you may consider, on a risk-based approach, treating it as 
such. 
 
Where further CDD is required for a listed company (i.e., when it is not on a regulated 
market or where you otherwise deem it necessary) consider the nature of the risks 
presented and obtain additional information/comforts to address those risks.  This may 
include obtaining relevant information or particulars of the company's identity or business 
practices. 
 
Verification sources may include: 
 
• a search of the relevant company registry (such as Companies House); 
• a copy of the company's certificate of incorporation; 
• a copy of their audited accounts; or 
• information from a reputable electronic verification service provider. 
 
You are still required to conduct ongoing monitoring of the business relationship with a publicly 
listed company to enable you to spot suspicious activity. 
 
Companies whose listing does not fall within the above requirements should be identified in 
accordance with the provisions for private companies. 
 
6.14.11.2 Private and unlisted companies in the UK 
 
Private companies are generally subject to a lower level of public disclosure than 
public companies. In general, however, the structure, ownership, purposes and 
activities of many private companies will be clear and understandable. 
 
Sources for verifying corporate identification may include: 
 
• certificate of incorporation; 
• articles of association (or equivalent formation documents); 
• details from the relevant company registry, confirming details of the company and 
of the director/s and their addresses; 
• filed audited accounts; or 
• information from a reputable electronic verification service provider. 

75 
 
 
 
R43 requires UK companies not listed on a regulated market to provide information 
about their identity on request, including their articles of association or other governing 
documents and information about beneficial owners. 
 
6.14.11.3 Private and unlisted overseas companies 
 
Obtaining CDD material for these companies may be more difficult, particularly 
regarding beneficial ownership where ownership is held in jurisdictions where no 
publicly available corporate registers are available, or ownership can be otherwise 
concealed through the use of nominees. If this is the case, it should be taken as an 
increased risk factor and may warrant the application of enhanced due diligence 
measures. 
 
The company's identity should be established in the same way as for UK private and 
unlisted companies. 
Where you are not obtaining original documentation, you should consider the need for 
further comfort on authenticity on a risk-based approach. Certification of documents does 
not automatically guarantee documentation is genuine.  
 
6.14.11.4 The Register of Overseas Entities 
 
Overseas entities wishing to buy, sell or transfer property or land in the UK must now 
register with Companies House. An overseas entity is defined as a legal entity governed 
by the law of a country or territory outside the UK. 
 
This requirement applies to overseas entities who own real property in the UK and have 
done so since:  
 
• in England and Wales, on or since 1 January 1999 
• in Scotland, on or since 8 December 2014 
• in Northern Ireland, on or since 5 September 2022. 
Regulation 28(9) does not exclude the ROE as a register on which you can rely on for the 
purposes of verification under 28(4). Nonetheless, it is important not to rely solely on this or 
any other register. Regulation 30A, for example, introduced a discrepancy reporting 
requirement for the ROE which indicates that inconsistency may occur. The information 
provided by such registers should be verified independently. 
Entries on the Register of Overseas Interests are not public but copies may be obtained on 
application to Companies House. 
More information is available here.  
 
6.14.12 Trusts 
 
These obligations set out below, apply to all trusts including will trusts and personal injury 
trusts.  
 

76 
 
 
6.14.12.1 Who is the client? 
 
In the UK, trusts do not have legal personality. As such, a trust cannot be your client. 
When advising in relation to a trust, your client may be: 
 
• the settlor; 
• the trustee(s); 
• the protector(s); or 
• one or more of the beneficiaries. 
 
Your client(s) will be the person to whom you owe your duty of care and who will receive 
the benefit of your advice. 
 
Where an express trust has yet to be established and you are providing tax or 
transactional advice to a prospective settlor in anticipation of creating a trust, your client 
will usually be the settlor. Your responsibilities to verify the identity of the client and their 
source of funds, is then no different to any other client, except that you will also need to 
understand the nature and extent of the assets that will be settled on the trust. 
 
6.14.12.2 Specific CDD requirements when instructed in relation to an existing trust 
 
Where you are instructed in relation to an existing trust, when applying CDD: you must 
obtain and verify the identity of your client including beneficial owners where applicable: 
 
• where you act for several beneficiaries (subject to conflicts issues), you must 
obtain and verify the identity of each of them, unless you are acting for them as 
a class (in which case you should identify the class by its name); 
• you must, where your client has had a trust funding role, understand your client’s 
source of wealth and the source of funds which were contributed (or which were 
used to acquire assets which were contributed) to the trust; 
• you must understand the nature and extent of the assets settled on the trust; and 
• you must understand and record the identity of the (non-client) settlor, trustee(s), 
protector(s), and/or beneficiary(is) and any person who otherwise has control of 
the trust, as trust beneficial owners. 
 
If the trust is a relevant trust for registration, you must also identify potential 
beneficiaries. 
 
If, when you carried out CDD in relation to a trust (or legal entity/arrangement other 
than a body corporate) the beneficiaries were designated as a class you must 
establish and verify the identity of any beneficiary before you are involved in the 
payment to, or exercising of rights of, a specified beneficiary.  
 
When applying CDD to a trust, or any other legal arrangement/entity which is not a 
company, involving a class of beneficiaries, you must always verify the identity of the 
beneficiary or beneficiaries before any payment is made to them or they exercise their 
vested rights in the trust or legal entity/arrangement (R 30 (7)). 
 

77 
 
 
6.14.12.3 CDD where the identified client (i.e., the trustee or the settlor) of a trust is an entity  
 
If the identified beneficial owner is an entity, you may need to understand who its 
ultimate beneficial owners are, depending on the entity's status (e.g., whether it is a 
company or some other type of entity).  
 
The extent of the measures you take to identify the ultimate beneficial owner of one of the 
trust’s defined ‘beneficial owners’ will depend on its role in relation to the trust. The ultimate 
beneficial owner of a settlor, protector or sole beneficiary entity should be fully identified. 
 
6.14.12.4 Who is a ‘beneficiary’ for the purposes of CDD where you act in relation to trusts? 
 
R6(1) implies that individual beneficiaries need not be identified in CDD unless it has been 
determined that they will benefit from the trust. That is, unless and until they have a vested 
interest in the capital of the trust. 
 
If you do not note all individual beneficiaries named in the trust deed or any associated 
document on the basis that their benefit from the trust has not yet been determined, you 
must identify any named class of beneficiaries, by its description. For example: 
 
• grandchildren of [X]; or 
• charity [Y]. 
 
As CDD can only take account of circumstances at a point in time, you should note the 
names of all discretionary beneficiaries (including those who have yet to acquire determined 
interests) named in the trust deed and any document from the settlor relating to the trust, 
such as a letter of wishes. Their interests may vest (or otherwise be determined) while you 
are acting in relation to the trust, thus bringing them within the group of individuals who need 
to be noted in CDD as beneficiaries, as defined in R6(1)(c). 
 
When considering the identity of those in whose main interest a trust is set up or 
operates and there are several classes of beneficiary, consider which class is most 
likely to receive most of the trust property. For example: 
 
• where a trust is for the issue of [X], then the class is the issue of [X] as there is only 
one class; 
• where a trust is for the children of [X], if they all die, for the grandchildren of [X] 
and if they all die for charity [Y], then the class is likely to be the children of [X] as 
it is unlikely that they will all die before the funds are disbursed; or 
• where a discretionary trust allows for payments to the widow, the children, their 
spouses and civil partners, the grandchildren and their spouses and civil partners 
then all interests are equal, and all classes will need to be identified. 
 
When in doubt about which class has the main interest, you should identity all 
classes. 
 
However, where you act in relation to a discretionary trust, if you decide against noting in 
your CDD the names of individual beneficiaries who are named in the trust deed or any 
associated document on the basis that their benefitting from the trust has not yet been 
determined, you will need to seek regular updates from your client, as part of your on-going 

78 
 
 
monitoring measures on a risk-based approach. This may include when and whether 
beneficiaries’ interests in the trust will be or have been determined. 
 
The wider approach, involving noting all beneficiaries and potential beneficiaries named 
in the trust deed and any associated document at CDD outset, may therefore be 
preferable from the outset. 
6.14.12.5 What does ‘an individual who has control over the trust’ mean? 
R6(1)(e) brings any individual who has control over the trust within the definition of 
the beneficial owners of a trust and they will therefore need to be identified when you 
act in relation to a trust. 
 
R6(2) defines control as a power, whether exercisable alone, jointly or with the consent of 
another, under the trust instrument or by law to: 
 
• dispose of, advance, lend, invest, pay or apply trust property; 
• vary or terminate the trust; 
• add or remove a person as a beneficiary or to or from a class of beneficiaries; 
• appoint or remove trustees or give another individual control over the trust; or 
• direct, withhold consent to or veto the exercise of one of the above powers. 
 
R6(4)(b) specifically excludes from the definition of an individual who has control over a 
trust an individual ('P') who has control solely as a result of: 
 
• P's consent being required in accordance with section 32(1)(c) (power of 
advancement) of the Trustee Act 1925; 
• any discretion delegated to P under section 34 (power of investment and 
delegation) of the Pensions Act 1995; 
• the power to give a direction conferred on P by section 19(2) (appointment and 
retirement of trustee at instance of beneficiaries) of the Trusts of Land and 
Appointment of Trustees Act 1996; or 
• the power exercisable collectively at common law to vary or extinguish a trust 
where the beneficiaries under the trust are of full age and capacity and (taken 
together) absolutely entitled to the property subject to the trust (or, in Scotland, 
have a full and unqualified right to the fee). 
 
6.14.12.6 CDD implications arising from the register of beneficial owners of taxable relevant trusts 
 
If you or your practice on occasions acts as (as opposed to for) a trustee of a taxable 
relevant trust, pursuant to R44 of the Regulations you will need to maintain accurate and 
up to date records of all beneficial owners and potential beneficiaries of the trust. 
 
Even if your practice is also acting for the trustee(s) and has applied CDD, this may involve 
you in more extensive investigations. 
 
A taxable relevant trust is: 
 
• a UK express trust, meaning that either all the trustees are resident in the UK or 
at least one trustee is UK resident and the settlor was UK resident and domiciled 
when the trust was set up or when the settlor added funds to it; or 

79 
 
 
• any other (non-UK) express trust which, in any tax year, becomes liable to pay 
one or more of UK income tax, capital gains tax, inheritance tax, stamp duty land 
tax, land and buildings transaction tax or stamp duty reserve tax in relation to UK 
income or assets. 
 
If you form a business relationship in your role as trustee with a relevant person, which 
could be an advisory relationship with your practice (if it is subject to the Regulations), 
you will need to inform the relevant person that you are acting as a trustee and, on 
request, provide the relevant person with information identifying the trust’s beneficial 
owners and potential beneficiaries. 
 
That obligation lies on (external) trustees of relevant trusts who enter into transactions in 
relation to which you or your practice are required to apply CDD or who form a business 
relationship with you or your practice (if you are subject to the Regulations). This should 
assist you in your compliance with your CDD obligations and is another reason why it 
makes sense to extend your CDD in relation to a relevant trust's beneficial owners also to 
cover potential beneficiaries. 
 
Otherwise, from a reputational risk and advisory perspective, as law enforcement 
authorities may gain access to information not only about the trust’s beneficial owners as 
defined in R6(1) but also the names of those individuals who are referred to in any 
document from the settlor, such as a letter of wishes, relating to the trust, it is prudent to 
note such wider information in your CDD records where you act for any client in relation to 
a relevant trust, and where you act in relation to any trust. 
6.14.12.7 Practical considerations of CDD for trusts 
 
Applying CDD where you act in relation to an existing trust should generally involve your 
having sight of the trust deed or documents which relates to it and obtaining an 
appropriate understanding of their content. In some circumstances, this understanding of 
the content may come from an explanatory note provided by another professional 
regulated for AML to a similar standard. The rationale for obtaining such evidence in this 
manner should be documented. 
 
In low-risk situations (as determined by appropriate and thorough documented risk 
assessment) you may be able to record an account of the terms of the trust given by the 
client or another regulated person who has had an involvement with setting up or 
managing the trust. However, before doing so, you should be assured that the reason for 
your not being provided with the trust deed and any document which relates to it makes 
sense in all circumstances, is recorded by you and is not indicative of a higher risk of 
money laundering. 
 
You will also need to assure yourself that in identifying the trust’s beneficial owners, the 
client or other regulated person, as appropriate, had proper regard to whether they 
included any individual (other than the settlor, the trustees and the beneficiaries) who has 
control over the trust, and potential beneficiaries. 
 
6.14.13 Partnerships, limited partnerships, Scottish limited partnerships and UK LLPs 
A partnership, other than in Scotland, is not a separate legal entity, so you must 
obtain information on the constituent individuals. 

80 
 
 
 
Where partnerships or unincorporated businesses are well-known, reputable organisations, 
with long histories in their industries and with substantial public information about them, their 
principals, and controllers the following information may be sufficient: 
 
• name; 
• registered address, if any; 
• trading address; and 
• nature of business. 
 
You must still verify the identity of the partnership’s beneficial owners. 
 
R5(3) provides that in the case of a partnership (but not a limited liability partnership) 
the following individuals are beneficial owners: 
 
• any individual ultimately entitled to or who controls, (whether directly or 
indirectly), more than 25 per cent of the capital or profits of the partnership or 
more than 25 per cent of the voting rights in the partnership; or 
• any individual who otherwise exercises control over the management of the 
partnership. 
 
Relevant points to consider when applying R5(3) are: 
 
• the property of the entity includes its capital and its profits; and 
• control involves the ability to manage the use of funds or transactions outside of 
the normal management structure and control mechanisms 
 
You should also consider whether there are any other registries on which you may be able 
to verify the details of the partnership.  
 
Other partnerships and unincorporated businesses which are small and have few partners 
should be treated for identification and verification purposes in the same way as private 
individuals (i.e., identifying and verifying each partner). Where the numbers are larger, 
they should be treated for identification and verification purposes in the same way as 
private companies. 
 
Where a partnership is made up of regulated professionals, it may be sufficient to confirm 
the practice's existence and the trading address from a reputable professional directory or 
search facility with the relevant professional body. Otherwise, you should obtain evidence 
on the identity of at least two partners and evidence of the practice's trading address. You 
must still verify the identity of the partnership’s beneficial owners. 
 
For a UK LLP or SLP, you should obtain information in accordance with the requirements 
for companies as outlined above as these are treated as corporate entities. 
 
Careful consideration should be made regarding clients where partners themselves are 
overseas entities, particularly where these overseas entities are located in jurisdictions 
where no publicly available corporate registers are available, or ownership can be 
otherwise concealed through the use of nominees or similar structures. This is particularly 
relevant where the vehicle is used to hold assets or is involved in transactional or other 
potentially high-risk activities, or conversely, where no discernible business activity can be 
determined, from internet searches or other sources. Such factors may be indicative of 
shell companies and are likely to be indicative of higher ML risk. You should give 

81 
 
 
consideration to why the use of such structures may not be legitimate and the nature and 
purpose of the business. Your client may be able to help you understand this. Information 
obtained should be considered in light of other CDD information available.  
 
Where you have assessed the client risk to be higher risk because of its structure or 
factors as above, then you must put in place enhanced due diligence and ongoing 
monitoring. 
 
6.14.14 Foundations 
 
Foundations may or may not have legal personality. You should investigate whether this 
is the case and whether it is appropriate to take on the foundation as your client or 
whether your client should be the board of trustees or another party involved with the 
foundation. 
 
If the foundation lacks legal personality, you should approach CDD, as you would where 
you act for a client in relation to a trust. R6(5) provides that ‘beneficial owner’ in relation to 
a foundation or other legal arrangement similar to a trust, means those individuals who 
hold equivalent or similar positions to the (defined) beneficial owners of trusts. 
 
6.14.15 Charities 
 
Charities may take a number of forms. In the UK, you may come across five types of 
charities: 
 
• small; 
• registered; 
• unregistered; 
• excepted, such as churches; or 
• exempt, such as museums and universities. 
 
For registered charities, you should take a record of their full name, registration number 
and place of business. Details of registered charities in the UK can be obtained from: 
 
• the Charity Commission of England and Wales; 
• the Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator; or 
• the Charity Commission for Northern Ireland. 
 
Other countries may also have charity regulators which maintain a list of registered 
charities. You may consider it appropriate to refer to these when verifying the identity of 
an overseas charity. 
 
For all other types of charities, you should consider the business structure of the charity 
and apply CDD appropriately. You may also get confirmation of UK charitable status from 
HMRC. Further, in applying the risk-based approach to charities it is worth considering 
whether it is a well-known entity or not. The more obscure the charity, the more likely you 
are to want to view the constitutional documents of the charity, along with any other 
documents that may clarify the individuals in control and its status. 
 

82 
 
 
Due to the numerous examples of charities and not-for-profit organisations as fund raising 
vehicles for terrorist organisations you may want to also consult HM Treasury's 
consolidated list of persons designated as being subject to financial restrictions to ensure 
the charity is not a designated person. 
 
Another point to consider is Source of Funds, in that charities may fund transactions 
effectively through crowdfunding, which can make a Source of Funds check difficult to 
complete. Taking a risk-based approach you should consider whether you need to seek 
information as to who those individuals or entities are that are funding the charity, 
particularly those contributing larger percentages or amounts. 
6.14.16 Deceased persons' estates 
 
When acting for the executor(s) or administrators of an estate, you should establish their 
identity using the procedures for natural persons or companies set out above. When 
acting for more than one executor or administrator, you should verify the identity of at 
least two of them. You should also get copies of the death certificate, grant of probate 
and any letters of administration. 
 
If a will trust is created, and the trustees are different from the executors, the procedures 
in relation to trusts will need to be followed when the will trust comes into operation. 
 
6.14.17 Churches and places of worship 
 
Places of worship may either register as a charity or can apply for registration as a certified 
building of worship from the General Register Office (GRO) which will issue a certificate. 
Further, their charitable tax status will be registered with HMRC. As such, identification 
details with respect to the church or place of worship may be verified: 
 
• as for a charity; 
• through the headquarters or regional organisation of the denomination or 
religion; 
• with reference to the GRO certificate; or 
• through an enquiry to HMRC. 
 
6.14.18 Schools and colleges 
 
Schools and colleges may be a registered charity, a private company, an 
unincorporated association or a government entity and should be verified in 
accordance with the relevant category. The Department of Education maintains 
lists of approved educational establishments which may assist in verifying the 
existence of the school or college. 
 
6.14.19 Clubs and associations 
 
Many of these bear a low money laundering risk, but this depends on the scope of 
their purposes, ownership structure, activities and geographic spread. 

83 
 
 
 
The following information may be relevant to the identity of the club or association: 
 
• full name; 
• legal status; 
• purpose; 
• any registered address; or 
• names of all office holders. 
 
Documents which may verify the existence of the club or association include: 
 
• any articles of association or constitution; 
• statement from a bank, building society or credit union; 
• recent audited accounts; or 
• financial statements presented to the annual general meeting. 
 
6.14.20 Government agencies and councils 
 
The money laundering and terrorist financing risks associated with public authorities vary 
significantly depending on the nature of the retainer and the home jurisdiction of the public 
authority. It may be simple to establish that the entity exists, but where there is a 
heightened risk of corruption or misappropriation of government monies, greater monitoring 
of retainers should be applied. 
 
The following information may be relevant when establishing a public sector entity's 
identity: 
 
• full name of the entity; 
• nature and status of the entity; 
• address of the entity; 
• name of the home state authority; 
• name of the directors or equivalent; 
• name of the individual instructing you and confirmation of their authority to do so; 
or 
• extract from official government website. 
 
Under R37(3) the fact that the client is a public administration or publicly owned enterprise 
is one of the factors to consider when deciding whether it is low risk and whether to apply 
simplified due diligence. It will usually be appropriate to apply simplified due diligence to 
UK public authorities and to some non-UK public authorities, particularly those in the EEA. 
 
6.14.21 Further Information 
 
You may wish to consider the UK Financial Services Joint Money Laundering 
Steering Group (JMLSG) guidance Part 1 – (available here) as a useful source of 
information on possible ways to apply CDD on the above entities, and across a 
broader range of other entity structures. You should note though that in the context of 
legal services, the LSAG guidance takes precedent. 
 

84 
 
 
6.15 Beneficial ownership requirements 
 
6.15.1 Definition of a beneficial owner 
 
A beneficial owner is normally an individual who ultimately owns or controls the customer 
or on whose behalf a transaction is being conducted. In respect of private individuals (i.e., 
a natural person), the client themselves may be treated as the beneficial owner, unless 
there are features of the transaction, or surrounding circumstances, that indicate 
otherwise.  
 
Therefore, if your client is an individual, you may want to consider whether they are acting 
on their own behalf. A question to ask yourself in this context and more generally is: “do 
the services I am being asked to provide make sense given what I know about the client?” 
 
R5(1) defines the beneficial owner of a body corporate, other than a listed company, as 
meaning: 
 
any individual who: 
 
• exercises ultimate control over the management of the body corporate; 
• ultimately owns or controls, directly or indirectly, including through bearer share 
holdings or other means, more than 25% of the shares or voting rights in the body 
corporate; 
• otherwise controls the body: 
o by satisfying one or more of the conditions set out in Part 1 of 
Schedule 1A to the Companies Act 2006 (persons with significant 
control); or 
o if the individual were an undertaking, the body corporate would be a 
subsidiary undertaking of the individual under section1162 of the 
Companies Act 2006 read with Part 7 of that Act. 
 
This does not apply to a company listed on a regulated market. It does apply to UK 
limited liability partnerships. 
 
Regulation 6(1) In relation to a trust, the Regulations define the beneficial owner as each of:  
• the settlor;  
• the trustees;  
• the beneficiaries, or where the individuals benefiting from the trust have not been 
determined,  the  class  of  persons  in  whose  main  interest  the  trust  is  set  up,  or 
operates; and 
• any individual who has control over the trust.  
In relation to a foundation or other legal arrangement similar to a trust, the beneficial owners 
are  those  who  hold  equivalent  or  similar  positions  to  those  set  out  above  in  the  case  of 
trusts. 
 
In  relation  to  a  legal  entity  or  legal  arrangement  which  does  not  fall  into  the  above,  the 
beneficial owners are:  
• any individual who benefits from the property of the entity or arrangement;  

85 
 
 
• where the  individuals  who  benefit from  the  entity or  arrangement  have  yet  to  be 
identified, the class of persons in whose main interest the entity or arrangement is 
set up or operates; and 
• any individual who exercises control over the property of the entity or arrangement. 
Unincorporated associations and foundations are examples of entities and 
arrangements likely to fall within these requirements. 
 
When applying this, relevant points to consider are: 
 
• the property of the entity includes its capital and its profits; 
• determined benefits are those to which an individual is currently entitled; 
• contingent benefits or situations where no determination has been made 
should be dealt with as a class to which (and because) benefit has yet to be 
determined; 
• a class of persons need only be identified by description; 
• an  entity  or  arrangement  is  set  up  for,  or  operates  in,  the  main  interest  of  the 
persons who are likely to get most of the property; 
• control includes the ability to manage the use of funds or transactions outside the 
normal management structure and control mechanisms; and 
• where you find a body corporate with the requisite interest outlined above, you will 
need to make further proportionate enquiries as to the beneficial owner of the 
body corporate. 
 
6.15.2 Other forms of control 
 
You should be alert to the risk that a corporate entity can also be subject to control by 
persons other than shareholders. Such control may rest with those who have power to 
manage funds or transactions without requiring specific authority to do so, and who would 
be in a position to authorise changes to internal procedures and control mechanisms. 
Depending on the control structures in an entity, this could be a senior role operating 
without actual or effective supervision or another entity. 
 
You should remain alert to any person or entity with such powers while you are obtaining 
an understanding of the ownership and control structure of the corporate entity and make 
such further enquiries you need in order to understand the control structure. Monitor 
situations within the retainer where control structures appear to be bypassed or unduly 
complex on a risk sensitive basis. 
 
6.16 CDD on a beneficial owner 
 
6.16.1 General Comments  
 
Beneficial Owners must be identified, and reasonable measures must be taken to verify 
their identities so that you are satisfied you know who the beneficial owner is and that they 
are in fact the beneficial owner in question.  
 
In complex structures, practices may have to look through layers of ownership (and 
consider any associated dilution of that ownership) to arrive at any natural persons owning 
or controlling the client entity.  

86 
 
 
 
It is important to review both shareholdings and voting rights in respect of beneficial 
ownership, along with understanding the class and value of shares any individual holds. 
 
Where the shareholding of an entity indicates that no one owns or controls over 25% of a 
client you may wish to consider whether it is appropriate that the senior manager (e.g., 
CEO, board, controlling mind of the company) be considered as the beneficial owners 
under R5(1))(a) and (c). This is subtly different to the requirements of R28(8) and would 
not necessarily raise a concern of extra risks as the circumstances of R28(7) might. 
 
When conducting CDD on a client, you will need to identify any beneficial owners as 
defined above. This may be undertaken by obtaining: 
 
• shareholder details from a reputable online registry or commercial provider; 
• a copy of a detailed structure chart; and 
• a copy of the trust deed, partnership agreement or other such document. 
 
It is not enough to solely rely on the information contained in a company’s register of 
persons with significant control. You should consider what is the appropriate level of 
verification required on an RBA. 
 
These reasonable measures to verify a beneficial owner, may differ to those you may use 
to verify the identity of a client that is a natural person. For example, you may not require 
passports or driving licenses in these circumstances, but EID&V may present an effective 
way to verify the identities of beneficial owners.   
 
It is for your practice to determine a tailored and risk sensitive approach that is appropriate 
to ensure you are satisfied you know who a beneficial owner is and that you fully 
understand their relationship with the non-natural person. 
6.16.2 Requirements introduced in 2020 
 
If you cannot identify the beneficial owner (where they have more than 25% holding of the 
company), you should consider whether this makes the client or matter higher risk and treat 
it accordingly and consider whether you should continue to act for the client. 
 
If you cannot identify a beneficial owner pursuant to the above despite having exhausted all 
possible means of doing so or if you are not satisfied that the person is the beneficial owner, 
you must then take reasonable measures to verify the identity of the senior responsible 
manager of the body corporate. Depending on the circumstances, it may be that you have 
already concluded this is the case on the basis that the individual “exercises ultimate control 
over the management of the body corporate” under Regulation 5(1)(a), although you should 
note that the scope of Regulation 5(1)(a) is not limited to this scenario. 
In practice, this may be the Chief Executive Officer or President of the group, or someone 
else in the executive team with high level responsibility for the running of the relevant aspect 
of the body corporate. 
 
You must also record: 
• All the actions you have undertaken to this end; and 
• Any difficulties encountered. 

87 
 
 
 
6.16.3 Agency 
 
R6(9) says a beneficial owner generally means any individual who ultimately owns or 
controls the client or on whose behalf a transaction is being conducted. 
 
In most cases, it is presumed that the client is acting on their own behalf, unless the 
features of the transaction indicate that they are acting on someone else's behalf.  As 
highlighted above you should make enquiries when it appears the client may be acting on 
behalf of someone else. 
 
Situations where a natural person may be acting on behalf of someone else include: 
 
• exercising a power of attorney - the document granting power of attorney may be 
sufficient to verify the beneficial owner's identity; 
• acting  as  the  deputy,  administrator  or  insolvency  practitioner - appointment 
documents may be sufficient to verify the beneficial owner's identity; or 
• acting as an appointed broker or other agent to conduct a transaction - signed 
letter of appointment may be sufficient to verify the beneficial owner's identity. 
 
You should be alert to the possibility that purported agency relationships are actually 
being utilised to facilitate a fraud, leading to possible encounters with the proceeds of 
crime. Understanding the reason for the agency, rather than simply accepting 
documentary evidence of such at face value, will assist to mitigate this risk. Where a 
client or retainer is higher risk, you should obtain further verification of the beneficial 
owner's identity in line with the suggested CDD methods to be applied to natural persons. 
 
This may also include where a legal practice commissions your services on behalf of 
someone else.  
 
6.16.4 Companies 
 
6.16.4.1 A proportionate approach 
 
Where you have adequately assessed ML risk to be lower, it would not be generally 
proportionate to conduct independent searches across multiple entities at multiple layers 
of a corporate chain to see whether, by accumulating very small interests in different 
entities, a person finally achieves more than a 25 per cent interest in the client corporate 
entity. Nevertheless, you must be satisfied that you have an overall understanding of the 
ownership and control structure of the client company. This provision does not apply in 
any situations of higher risk, where EDD should be applied. 
 
6.16.4.2 Companies with capital in the form of bearer shares 
 
A bearer share is a form of equity (i.e., a stock or share in a company or equivalent) wholly 
owned by whoever holds the physical stock certificate. Given this, there is no way to 
register the owner of the stock confidently or consistently nor track transfers of ownership 
 

88 
 
 
These pose a much higher risk of money laundering as it is often difficult to identify 
beneficial owners and such companies are often incorporated in jurisdictions with lower 
AML/CTF regulations. You should consider whether the risk posed is acceptable for your 
practice before proceeding.  
 
If you do proceed, you must adopt procedures to establish the identities of the holders and 
material beneficial owners of such shares and ensure you are notified whenever there is a 
change of holder and/or beneficial owner (i.e., who they are held on behalf of).  
 
This might be achieved by: 
 
• requiring that the shares be deposited with you or a regulated person with whom 
you have a binding covenant; or  
• getting appropriate assurance that either such a regulated person or the holder 
of the shares will notify you of any change of records/holder/ownership relating 
to the shares. 
 
Ultimately it is for your practice to determine the confidence you can place in any assurances 
that the bearer shares will not be used to hide money laundering or terrorist financing, 
however extreme caution must be exercised. Bear in mind that the issuance of bearer 
shares has been banned in the UK since May 2015, primarily due to money laundering and 
transparency concerns. Enhanced due diligence and ongoing monitoring should be 
performed and practices must be able to demonstrate the effectiveness of controls in place 
to their supervisor. 
 
Where a practice does undertake work for clients where beneficial ownership is held in the 
form of bearer shares, this should be articulated in the Practice-Wide Risk Assessment. 
 
6.16.5 Trusts 
Whenever you are instructed by someone involved with an existing trust to advise in relation 
to it, you must extend your CDD to the trust’s beneficial owners.  
 
You should take a risk-based approach to verifying the identity of the ultimate beneficial 
owner/s of a professional trustee entity (as they should have no interest in the assets placed 
in trust). Higher-risk indicators may be where the professional trustee entity is unregulated or 
where the professional trustee is not independent of the settlor (e.g., family offices). Where 
such factors are present, reasonable measures should be taken to verify the identity of the 
beneficial owner/s of the trustee. Lower risk factors may be where the professional trustee is 
itself a regulated entity (or owned by one) or is large, well-known and/or listed on a regulated 
market. In such low-risk instances, you should not need to identify and verify beneficial 
ownership of the professional trustee, although you should document the rationale for your 
actions. 
 
R28(4)(a) requires a relevant person to identify the beneficial owner ‘of a client’ which is 
beneficially owned by another person. R6(1) defines ‘the beneficial owners in relation to a 
trust’ as the settlor, the trustees, the beneficiaries (or class of beneficiaries) and any 
individual who has control over the trust. Although your client will not actually be the trust 
(because a trust does not have legal personality), if you advise any client in relation to a 
trust, the Regulations require you to understand who the trust's other beneficial owners are, 
as defined in R6(1). 

89 
 
 
 