ebook 
for Professional Body Anti-Money Laundering Supervisors, which was 
published in January 2023 and aims to deliver a stronger and more consistent 
standard of supervision of the accountancy and legal sectors.  
 
2.15 The FCA’s risk-based supervisory approach has undergone significant 
enhancements to become more proactive and data-led since 2020. Fighting 
crime is one of the FCA’s four strategic priorities for 2025-2030 demonstrating 
the focus on this area.  
 
2.16 The Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 created a new 
regulatory objective in the Legal Services Act 2007 focusing on promoting the 
prevention and detection of economic crime. The Act also removed the 
statutory cap on financial penalties for the Solicitors Regulation Authority 
(SRA) to ensure the SRA has the necessary enforcement powers and can levy 
financial penalties that act as a credible deterrent in relation to economic 
crime matters. 
Combat criminal use of cryptoassets  
2.17 Several changes have been made to the MLRs to enhance oversight and 
control of cryptoasset firms since the 2020 NRA. In 2023 the scope of the wire 
transfer information-sharing regime was extended to cryptoassets (the ‘travel 
rule’) for both domestic and cross-border transfers. Further, since 2023, the 
promotion of certain cryptoassets to UK consumers is subject to the FCA’s 
financial promotion rules. In the first year, the FCA issued 1,702 consumer 
alerts about illegal promotions, over 900 scam websites were taken down and 
56 apps removed from UK app stores. 
 
2.18 The Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act introduced 
additional powers for law enforcement, so they are able to more quickly and 
easily seize and recover cryptoassets which are the proceeds of crime or 
associated with illicit activity such as money laundering, terrorist financing, 
fraud and ransomware attacks. 
 
2.19 Law enforcement has invested in improving both their capacity and 
capability to investigate the criminal use of cryptoassets. This includes the 

 
16 
 
rolling out of new training and upskilling to improve law enforcement officers’ 
understanding of cryptoassets, supported by the provision of specialist tooling 
(i.e. blockchain analytics tools) and the building of a new crypto-specific 
public-private partnership within the existing Joint Money Laundering 
Intelligence Taskforce (JMLIT), which brings together law enforcement and 
members of the regulated sector structure. This public-private partnership has 
helped develop our understanding of the threat and fomented various joint 
initiatives (including around data sharing).    
 
Improve intelligence, analysis and feedback through SARs Reform 
2.20 Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs) intelligence is a critical tool in our ability 
to identify and disrupt criminal activity and recover criminal assets. The SARs 
Reform Programme is delivering a new SARs Digital Service (SDS) and has 
provided an uplift of staff to Regional Organised Crime Units (ROCUs) and the 
UK Financial Intelligence Unit (UKFIU). The delivery of the new SDS will enable 
the enhancement of data exploitation, improve feedback and engagement to 
the regulated sector, enable timelier intelligence sharing with law 
enforcement agencies, improve capacity and capability across HMG and 
provide more efficient and effective reporting by the regulated sector. 
 
Recover more criminal assets  
2.21 In addition to the new cryptoassets measures, reforms have been made to 
the unexplained wealth order (UWO) regime. These amendments extended 
the class of persons who may be subject to an UWO, amended the income 
requirement provisions, increased the maximum statutory time period 
afforded to law enforcement to review material, and reformed the cost rules.  
 
2.22 Further, the Anti-Money Laundering and Asset Recovery (AMLAR) 
Programme (2023-2026) has been established, funded by the economic crime 
levy, increasing law enforcement capacity and capabilities.  
 
2.23 Since 2020, there has been a sustained level of assets recovered with 
£358.4 million recovered in 2021/22, £341.5 million recovered in 2022/23 and 
£243.3 million recovered in 2023/24.  
 
Lead the cross-system operational response to money laundering and 
terrorist financing  
 
2.24 The NECC continues to be the operational cross-system leaders. For 
example, in 2024 the NECC, NCA and OPBAS published the Cross System 
Professional Enablers Strategy. The aim of the strategy is to galvanise a whole 
system response to deliver a step-change in reducing the threat posed by 
professional enablers. 

 
17 
 
Funding and law enforcement capability  
2.25 The Economic Crime (Anti-Money Laundering) Levy was introduced 
through the Finance Act 2022. Following changes to levy rates in the Spring 
Budget 2024, it is now expected to raise around £115 million per year from 
April 2024 onwards to spend on measures designed to tackle money 
laundering and economic crime. For the first three years of the levy this 
included:  
• £100 million for state-of-the-art technology to analyse and share data on 
threats in real time, giving law enforcement the tools it needs to stay 
ahead of 